# Making Django Development Server to use HTTPS

The majority of real-world web applications require using HTTPS connection.
*HTTPS* stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure. HTTPS is an extension of 
Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP), ensuring a secure communication over a computer network.
In HTTPS communication the data is encrypted using *Transport Layer Security* (TLS) or,
formerly, *Secure Socket Layer* (SSL). 

A built-in Django development server is not able to serve web pages through HTTPS.
In this post I will explain how to make your development server to serve your 
Django application using HTTPS protocol. I'm using this functionality when testing
my Django apps.

In order to serve the website through HTTPS we will be using RunServerPlus extension
from the *django-extensions* package. *django-extensions* package is a collection of
custom Django extensions that make the developer's life a whole way easier. 
*RunServerPlus* combines Django runserver with Werkzeug debugger, this combo provides a number
of enhancements for debugging and testing of Django applications.


#### Step 1: Install django-extensions package

    $ pip install django-extensions


#### Step 2: Install Werkzeug library

    $ pip install werkzeug


#### Step 3: Install pyOpenSSl

    $ pip install pyOpenSSL


#### Step 4: Open settings.py and add *django-extenstions* to INSTALLED_APPS

    INSTALLED_APPS = [
        # ...
        'django_extensions',
        # ...
    ]

#### Step 5: Run RunServerPlus development server

    $ python manage.py runserver_plus --cert-file cert.crt


Open a Django application you are working on in the web browser, and notice
that the application is served through HTTPS. Your browser might show a security warning because
you are using self-signed certificates. If this is the case, open the *Advanced* information
displayed by the browser, and accept the certificates as trusted. 
Those certificates were generated by *django-extensions* package, so you can safely accept them.

This is it. Now you can serve your Django apps through HTTPS in your development environment.





